Pitch Report | Ian Bishop and Katey Martin: "It's always a great pleasure to be standing out here in the middle at Eden Gardens, and the IPL continues to excite, to enthrall, and to entertain, and we should be royally entertained today. I have no jacket on because it feels like about 40 degrees. They tell me it's about 36, 37. It feels warmer than that. The dimensions, as we stand here, away to my right about 58 meters, significantly larger away to my left, about 70 meters, and 74 down the ground. So those square boundaries, you'll find tactically coming into play. In terms of the surface, there is some nice green tinge still to it, so there is some more patches, but there's at least a little bit of grass on top. They have shaved a bit down, so that'll aid a little bit of that pace and bounce throughout here at Eden Gardens. If I look at Arora in that game against LSG and how he was able to adjust his tactics, he bowled straighter, straighter, and then he went wider. And I think that's something we're starting to see in the IPL this season especially. Now with the dimensions you touched on as well and the tactics, you expect that will even accentuate it when the bowlers are bowling from this particular end to go wider into there. But it's a high-scoring ground. You've got to go big early here, and even if you do, it doesn't mean you're going to win the game. Well, if it does bring into consequence and significance what they do at the toss, sometimes it can start just a little bit sticky, but we find out over the course of the next three or four hours."

Team News (broadcast): The Royals rested Shimron Hetmyer for the last game and they felt his absence when the top-order crumbled against Praful Hinge. He should be back today in place of Lhuan-dre Pretorius. For KKR, Matheesha Pathirana has finally joined the camp, but it might be too early to throw him into the cauldron. But can they delay his introduction further? Their pace bowling has lacked bite and it was surprising to see them leave out Blessing Muzarabani, especially after the Zimbabwean returned with a 4-wicket burst. Cameron Green's return to form was a big positive, can they now sort out the bowling headache?

Analyst note (match28 reconsider): KKR need points at their Eden fortress — home familiarity, crowd lift, and a power-heavy middle order suit chasing on this ground; desperation is a real intangible even when the model still favours RR on paper.
